# Reconstruction

You might have the topic a little weird, but hear me out. I realised that every so often I'd go through the (tedious but rewarding) process of reinventing/reconstructing myself. The idea of this blog post is to do a quick recap of some of my 'achievements' in the last year and quickly mention what I would like to do next.

## Recap

I once heard from someone that at the end of a year, we should be able to look ourselves in the mirror and see someone completely unrecognisable from who we were a year ago. Well yes, this does sound like a huge ask, but I honestly think that it is reasonable to ask this of ourselves, and we should. It is just so easy to live life on auto pilot and watch the years go by. I didn't make a conscious decision last year that I need to make myself completely unrecognisable by the end of 2020, but I daresay that I have indeed succeeded.

### French

For those that know me or have been following my previous blog posts, you'd probably already have a clue that I have been (and still am) pretty enthusiastic about the French language. I first started learning language in July 2019, i.e. about a year and a half ago. In the last year, I have been doing what I described in my previous blog post, something that I call 'passive learning'. And what it basically means is to learn subconsciously without making too much of a conscious effort, and hey if you ask me this makes a whole lot of sense, I am willing to bet that none of us studied 10 hours a day to master our native languages when we were younger! I do this simply by watching videos and streams on Youtube and Twitch in French, and I subconsciously became really comfortable and at ease with the language.

As opposed to a year ago, I don't use subtitles anymore nowadays, and of course I can understand these videos with relative ease. From time to time, I have voice calls with people on the Internet, usually with francophones that seek to learn English. At this point in time, I can have really smooth and meaningful conversations with people, oh and I get praised every so often for how good I am and this just puts a smile on my face every time it happens. When I first started of a year and a half ago, I never quite imagined that I would be able to make this much progress, let's just say that I am incredibly proud of myself (it might just be the biggest achievement in my life 😀). I have not taken a French language exam yet, nor do I have plans to do so in the near future, but hey I might just do it this year if I get the urge to do so. I'd aim to at least pass the DELF B2 exam (I think this is definitely doable), I think that if I were to put in the effort I might just be able to take the DALF C1 exam instead, though I am not completely sure about this yet.

### Computer Science

Here's something that I really only started doing towards the end of the year. Not gonna lie, in the first eight months or so of 2020 I was truly occupied with work, and at that point in time I just couldn't bear spending whatever hours I had left in a day reading anything tech related (basically anything remotely related to my work).

Sometime around the month of October, I kind of picked myself up and decided to start studying again, and lo and behold I decided to study Operating Systems. I don't remember exactly what got me into it, but I can say that I very quickly became hooked. I have been using a computer since the age of 5, and learning about OS I realised that there were so many things that we tend to take for granted as computer users. It might just be one of the most interesting subjects that I have ever studied. The way I did my studying was by referring to the [course materials of the Operating Systems course](http://rust-class.org) from the University of Virginia and also the amazing [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/) book at the same time. I have covered all the reading materials in both links above (and most of the assignments) and I found it a truly fruitful exercise. That wasn't the first time I tried to cover an undergraduate course on my own, but it was probably one of my favourites, I was truly captivated by the many small yet important things that an OS does behind the scenes to keep the show running. Oddly enough, I felt something that I had never once felt before throughout my undergraduate studies, for the first time in my life I studied something that gave me the desire to work further on it after having finished studying it, what I am basically saying is that I would love to get an opportunity to work on Operating Systems in the future if such an opportunity presents itself. I have some more OS related materials lined up for comsumption, but I decided to put that on pause for the moment to study some other things.

After my journey into the OS world has come to an end (or rather put on hold for the moment), I started wandering into the world of compilers. The reason why I wanted to study compilers is somewhat related to the Rust programming language (I might do a blogpost on this for a quick introduction to Rust while drawing some parallels with my favourite programming language: C 😏), at that point in time I was convinced that the Rust compiler was doing many incredible things and I truly wanted to dive deeper into that, but alas I had never learned about compilers before (we all gotta start somewhere 😂). My study strategy for compilers is somewhat different compared to the one I employed to study OS. In a way I am employing a top-down kind of approach where I try to avoid doing a deep dive into theory from the get go, but instead attempt to take a more practical approach and learn to build things first, i.e. getting a feel of how everything falls into place by getting my hands dirty, and eventually going back to learn more theory once all that is out of the way. Here I would like to quote Jeremy Howard, a deep learning researcher that I truly respect "David Perkins, who wrote Making Learning Whole, has much to say about this. The basic idea is to teach “the whole game”. That means that’s if you’re teaching baseball, you first take people to a baseball game or get them to play it. You don’t teach them how to line thread into a ball, the physics of a parabola, or the coefficient of friction of a ball on a bat. Or take music. You don’t start out by studying the theory of harmonics and how strings vibrate and the circle of fifths. Instead, you would take someone to a concert or get them to start playing an instrument." Since compilers are known to be pretty difficult to study, I figured that this would be a pretty reasonable approach. So my approach was basically to follow along this [amazing tutorial](https://craftinginterpreters.com) to build two implementations of an interpreter for a 'new' programming language. And the reason why the tutorial introduces two implementations is to first give us a softer introduction to the world of compilers and interpreters in the form of an implementation in Java in the first half of the tutorial, the second half of the tutorial then demonstrates how to do it in C with a completely different implementation strategy, and this time with plenty of optimisations. At the time of writing, I am almost done with the second half of the tutorial and it truly has been an amazing journey, I have learned so much about how a compiler can be built from the ground up just by trying to do it myself. After I am done with this tutorial I will then have a go at studying Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools (also known as the 'Dragon book'), the material here is known to be pretty dense and I haven't quite figured out a strategy to navigate it yet. My study of compilers is far from over, but I can say now with certainty that this is truly something interesting enough to the point that I'd want to spend more time working on in the future.

## 2021
A while ago, I told myself that I should decide on something else to work on and learn in my free time. I basically gave myself two options, learn a new language (I was thinking of Japanese) or get good at chess. In the beginning, I was truly learning towards learning Japanese as it just seemed like the easier of the two. Oh and in case you're not convinced that learning a new language could possibly be easier than learning a game, the fact that the Japanese language shares many numerous characters with the Chinese language and my previous language learning experience makes me pretty confident that I could be fluent in the language in 6 months or less. But with all that being said, I wasn't happy with myself for taking the easy way out, and hence I decided that I should start taking chess seriously and try to get good at it. And it has thus been something that I have been doing since December. To progress in the game I have been playing people online and spending sometime studying opening theory. I might discuss chess a bit more in future blog posts if I get any ideas. In any case, I seek to continue doing this in the coming year, and I am excited to see how much better can I get in the span of a year.

I would also continue studying compilers, and maybe even do a deeper dive into operating systems, or perhaps some other computer science subject that I find interesting. For the moment, these are the goals that I have set for myself for the year 2021, though with how things usually go for me I would probably find more interesting things to spend my time on throughout the year. In any case, I think that things are looking good so far, someone once told me that a good indicator of whether or not we would eventually go on to achieve the goals that we set for ourselves at the start of the year is whether or not we have actually started working on said goals before the year has even ended, oh and I most definitely have.