---
tags: random
---

# Feeling grateful

It took me a while to realize how privileged I truly am. I've always lived a
relatively comfortable life, but it wasn’t until recently that I fully grasped
how fortunate I am to have what I have. After living in Montréal for three
years, it became clear just how lucky I am — not just to be here, but also to
have the skills needed to thrive in this environment.

Looking back, it's fascinating to see how the things I once took for granted
have come together to make everything work out in my life. One of the first
things I noticed from a young age was my knack for learning languages. At the
time, I didn’t think much of it. But since moving to Montréal, this "talent"
has proven to be not only valuable but essential for thriving here.

I began learning French in 2019 and had a decent command of the language before
moving. However, since arriving in Montréal, my French has improved at an
incredible pace. I can confidently say that my French is now stronger than most
of the other languages I learned before it. French plays a crucial role in
everyday life in Montréal. Without it, I would have missed out on countless
precious moments and meaningful friendships. I doubt I would even have my
current job without fluency in French, and I certainly wouldn’t be able to
proceed with my application for permanent residency.

I've always done well academically, but for the longest time, I took that for
granted. I never saw it as an 'advantage' in life because I couldn't perceive
any tangible benefits. However, towards the end of my master's degree, my
perspective shifted. I realized that my academic abilities had opened doors,
not just allowing me to work on fascinating problems but also to excel in them.
I was exposed to domains I hadn't known existed and introduced to novel,
cutting-edge ideas.

Over the past few years, I've been fortunate to have the unwavering support of
my family and friends. The success I've achieved today is truly a team effort —
I couldn't have made it here alone. Above all that, I must also recognize that
I am fortunate enough to have the financial means to pull off what I did in my
last 3 years here in Canada. I am eternally grateful for the opportunities I've
had and for the journey that has brought me to where I am today, I truly am
privileged.
