---
tags: soen
---

# Does the perfect job exist?

Now, I'm just wondering how common it is for people to feel this way. Before I
start, I probably would have to provide you folks with more context. Job
fulfillment is a very subjective thing, different people demand different things
in order to be perceive their work as fulfilling. Personally, I've always
associated my satisfaction of a job with how much I grow while exercising my
duties. This is of course, very tightly related to how challenging the job is.
Naturally, a demanding job pushes you to your limits and helps you grow. So,
where I'm getting to precisely is that since I just started my new job several
weeks ago, things have been relatively chill and I haven't had the chance to
work on anything super exciting yet. Perhaps all this is quite normal and not
that surprising, but I can't help but feel a little unsatisfied sometimes. I
have this (unhealthy?) need to learn more, be more, and achieve more. I get back
home and I find myself a whole host of things that I want to read and work on.
And honestly, I would love to devote what little free time I have to this at the
end of the day. However, I am not as young as I used to be and I unfortunately
start feeling the fatigue very early in the evening. I see this as the
opportunity cost of working[^1]. Well, of course, I would need to work in order
to survive, heck even that is insufficient, I want to be *handsomely*
compensated. Maybe I am overthinking the entire thing, and my job will soon
become more interesting.

Does the perfect job exist? One that challenges me in the right ways and
compensates me appropriately? Should I be searching for it or should I be trying
to create it? And if it does exist, am I qualified to do it now or in the
future? What exactly would I have to do in order to get there? What would **my**
dream job look like anyway?? Urgh this is indeed quite a headache :) If anyone
has any advice, feel free to reach out to me.

[^1]: Perhaps this is why people seek the intellectual refuge of academia. This
      comes with its own opportunity costs, of course. I opted not to remain in
      the world of academia for reasons that I shall not elaborate on for now.

